STOCK MARKET HALTED.
IT WAS A BAD DAY FOR COMPUTER
GLITCHES, TRAVELERS AND
INVESTORS ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY:
DEBATING THE LIMITS OF PRIVACY--
DISPUTES OVER GOVERNMENT POWER
TO ACCESS ENCRYPTED DATA.
>> Ifill: PLUS, PROTECTING
PRISTINE WATERS OF THE GREAT
LAKES.
GROWING SAFETY CONCERNS OVER
AGING PIPELINES AT RISK OF
RUPTURE.
>> OIL IS VERY HARD TO CLEAN UP,
SO I GUESS I'M WORRIED THAT A
LEAK WOULD BE CLOSE TO AN
IMPOSSIBLE THING TO SOLVE.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET BATTLED
BAD NEWS ALL DAY AND ENDED WITH
SIZEABLE LOSSES.
A COMPUTER GLITCH THAT STOPPED
TRADING FOR HOURS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN 260 POINTS TO
CLOSE BACK NEAR 17,500.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 90 POINTS
AND THE S&P 500 FELL 35.
>> Ifill: MICROSOFT ANNOUNCED
TODAY IT'S CUTTING ANOTHER 7,800
JOBS, OR ABOUT 6% OF ITS GLOBAL
WORK FORCE.
THE CUTS AFFECT THE COMPANY'S
STRUGGLING PHONE BUSINESS.
MICROSOFT ALREADY CUT 18,000
JOBS IN THAT SECTOR AS PART OF A
MAJOR RESTRUCTURING.
>> Woodruff: GREECE MADE A NEW
FINANCIAL BAILOUT PROPOSAL
TODAY, IN THE FACE OF A NEW
DEADLINE AND A POSSIBLE "GREXIT"
-- A GREEK EXIT FROM THE EURO
ZONE, THE EUROPEAN MONETARY
UNION.
IT CAME AS GREECE'S PRIME
MINISTER ADDRESSED THE EUROPEAN
PARLIAMENT IN STRASBOURG,
FRANCE.
JONATHAN RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS.
>> Reporter: HE ARRIVED TO MIX
OF CHEERS AND SCATTERED BOOS.
HIS COUNTRY IN CRISIS, BUT
ALEXIS TSIPRAS SEEMINGLY NOT SO.
GREECE, HE SAID, HAD BEEN TURNED
INTO AN AUSTERITY LAB, BUT THE
EXPERIMENT HAD FAILED, THOUGH HE
PROMISED TO PROVIDE DETAILED
REFORM PROPOSALS IN NEXT FEW
DAYS.
DAYS. >> (translated
): WE ARE ASKING
>> (translated): WE ARE
ASKING FOR PRODUCTIVE AND FAIR
FOR PRODUCTIVE AND FAIR
COMPROMISE.
I BELIEVE TOGETHER WE CAN RISE
TO THIS HISTORICAL CHALLENGE.
>> Reporter: HIS FELLOW GREEKS
WITH THEIR 'NO' SIGNS LOVED IT.
BUT THEIR LEADER'S DEFIANCE WAS
A LITTLE MUTED BECAUSE TODAY
GREECE FORMALLY REQUESTED
ANOTHER THREE YEAR AID PACKAGE
IN EXCHANGE FOR PROMISES, WHICH
EUROPE'S STONY-FACED LEADERS ARE
NO LONGER INCLINED TO BELIEVE.
>> YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT REFORMS
BUT WE NEVER SEE CONCRETE
PROPOSALS OF REFORMS.
I'M ANGRY BECAUSE WE ARE IN FACT
SLEEP WALKING TOWARDS A GREXIT.
>> Reporter: ALEXIS TSIPRAS
STILL BELIEVES THAT HE CAN
STRIKE A DEAL TO KEEP GREECE
INSIDE THE EUROZONE.
BUT HIS EUROPEAN PARTNERS ARE
FAR FROM SURE.
AND THIS REMAINS A BATTLE OF
WILLS AND A WAR OF NERVES,
IN BRUSSELS LAST NIGHT GREECE
WAS GIVEN WHAT SOUNDED LIKE AN
ULTIMATUM.
EUROPE WILL KEEP GREEK BANKS
AFLOAT TILL SUNDAY, BUT ONLY
BEYOND THAT IF SERIOUS TALKS
AT A MIDNIGHT PRESS CONFERENCE,
A WEARY GERMAN CHANCELLOR
APPEARED TO RULE OUT ANY MORE
DEBT CANCELLATION.
EXTENDING DEBT REPAYMENTS
PERHAPS GERMANY'S ONLY
ACCEPTABLE DEFINITION OF
COMPROMISE.
>> Woodruff: GREEK BUSINESS
LEADERS WARN THAT IF THERE'S NO
DEAL, THE COUNTRY WILL SEE AN
"EXPLOSION OF UNEMPLOYMENT" AND
VIRTUAL ECONOMIC COLLAPSE.
>> Ifill: THE EXILED GOVERNMENT
OF YEMEN ANNOUNCED TODAY IT WILL
ACCEPT A TRUCE WITH SHI-ITE
HOUTHI REBELS, WHO CONTROL MUCH
OF THE COUNTRY.
AS PART OF THE DEAL, PRESIDENT
ABD-RABBU MANSOUR HADI CALLED
FOR A REBEL PULLOUT FROM
SOUTHERN AND EASTERN PROVINCES.
THE HOUTHIS HAD NO IMMEDIATE
RESPONSE.
>> Woodruff: AND IN IRAQ, A
BAGHDAD COURT SENTENCED 24
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS TO DEATH
FOR THE MASSACRE OF 1,700 IRAQI
SOLDIERS.
THE TROOPS WERE KILLED LAST YEAR
NEAR TIKRIT WHEN ISIS OVERRAN
THE CITY.
GOVERNMENT TROOPS HAVE SINCE
RETAKEN TIKRIT.
ANOTHER 600 MILITANTS ACCUSED IN
THE MASSACRE ARE STILL AT LARGE.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
THE MAYOR OF BALTIMORE FIRED THE
POLICE COMMISSIONER TODAY AFTER
A RECENT SPIKE IN HOMICIDES.
ARRESTS HAVE PLUNGED AND
KILLINGS SURGED SINCE APRIL.
>> WE CANNOT CONTINUE TO HAVE
THE LEVEL OF VIOLENCE THAT WE'VE
SEEN, PARTICULARLY OVER THE LAST
FEW WEEKS IN OUR CITY.
AND I REMAIN COMMITTED TO WORK
EVERY SINGLE DAY TO MAKE
BALTIMORE A SAFER CITY.
WE HAVE MADE PROGRESS AND I
DON'T WANT TO LOSE ANY OF THAT
PROGRESS.
>> Ifill: JUST YESTERDAY, THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCED AN
OUTSIDE REVIEW OF ITS RESPONSE
TO APRIL'S UNREST.
>> Woodruff: NEW YORK CITY WILL
STOP DEMANDING CASH BAIL FOR
SUSPECTS IN LOW-LEVEL OR NON-
VIOLENT CRIMES.
TODAY'S REFORM ADDRESSES
COMPLAINTS THAT TOO MANY POOR
PEOPLE WIND UP IN THE TROUBLED
RIKERS ISLAND COMPLEX BECAUSE
THEY CAN'T AFFORD BAIL.
UNDER THE NEW POLICY, JUDGES
HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO ORDER
SUPERVISION OPTIONS INCLUDING
DAILY CHECK-INS.
>> Ifill: AND, A FEDERAL JUDGE
TODAY ORDERED THAT THE
WASHINGTON REDSKINS' TRADEMARK
REGISTRATION BE CANCELED.
HE UPHELD AN APPEAL BOARD'S
FINDING THAT THE TEAM'S NAME IS
OFFENSIVE TO NATIVE AMERICANS.
THE RULING ALLOWS THE TEAM TO
KEEP ITS NAME, BUT MAKES IT
HARDER TO SUE FOR TRADEMARK
INFRINGEMENT.
TEAM OFFICIALS SAID THEY'LL
APPEAL.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR: DISRUPTIONS IN THE
AIR AND ON WALL STREET ROIL
PASSENGERS AND INVESTORS,
DEBATING PRIVACY RIGHTS, TERROR
THREATS AND GOVERNMENT ACCESS TO
ENCRYPTED COMMUNICATIONS, AGING
PIPELINES IN THE STRAITS OF
MACKINAC PROMPT SAFETY CONCERNS,
IN CHINA, INVESTOR PANIC CREATES
A CRISIS OF CONFIDENCE IN THE
CHINESE ECONOMY, HOW THE
SHUTDOWN OF EXPORT-IMPORT BANK
MAY AFFECT AMERICAN BUSINESS AND
WHY TELEVISION REMAINS THE
DOMINANT MEDIUM IN THE DIGITAL
AGE.
>> Ifill: WORRIES OVER THE
VULNERABILITY OF OUR TECHNOLOGY
AND COMPUTER NETWORKS LANDED
FRONT AND CENTER.
HACKING, INTELLIGENCE AND
NATIONAL SECURITY WERE ALREADY
THE FOCUS OF A CAPITOL HEARING
AS THE DAY STARTED.
THEN A SERIES OF COMPUTER SYSTEM
FAILURES QUICKLY CASCADED.
>> Woodruff: THE TIONNA'S
BIGGEST AIRLINE, BIGGEST STOCK
EXCHANGE, AND MOST PROMINENT
BUSINESS NEWSPAPER SUFFERED LONG
SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
FIRST, AN INTERNET ROUTER ISSUE
AT UNITED AIRLINES SUSPENDED ALL
ITS FLIGHTS FOR NEARLY TWO
HOURS.
THE PROBLEM LEAD TO 800 FLIGHT
DELAYS AND 60 CANCELLATIONS.
THEN, SHORTLY BEFORE NOON, A
"TECHNICAL PROBLEM" HALTED
TRADING AT THE NEW YORK STOCK
EXCHANGE.
IT LASTED FOUR HOURS-- THE
LONGEST SUSPENSION OF TRADING ON
THAT EXCHANGE IN SEVERAL YEARS.
FINALLY, THE WEBSITE OF THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" SUFFERED
"TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES" THAT
SENT READERS TO A TEMPORARY
SITE.
WE EXPLORE DISRUPTIONS AND
VULNERABILITIES WITH MICHAEL
REGAN OF "BLOOMBERG NEWS" AND
KEVIN MANDIA IS THE PRESIDENT OF
FIREEYE, A COMPANY THAT
SPECIALIZES IN DEALING WITH
CYBERSECURITY AND NETWORK
PROTECTION.
AND WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
MICHAEL REGAN, TO YOU FIRST,
LET'S START WITH THE NEW YORK
STOCK EXCHANGE,LOSE CD DOWN FOR
OVER THREE HOURS.
HOW BIG A DISRUPTION WAS THIS
AND WHAT'S KNOWN ABOUT WHAT
CAUSED IT?
>> WELL, THE PROBLEMS AT THE
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE ACTUALLY
STARTED EVEN BEFORE THE MARKET
OPENED, WHEN TRADERS SEND
PRE-MARKET ORDERS TO THE
EXCHANGE, AND IT WAS CLEAR THAT
THE COMMUNICATION BETWEEN
BROKERAGES AND THE EXCHANGE WAS
NOT WORKING PROPERLY, A LOT OF
CUSTOMERS WERE NOT GETTING THE
CONFIRMATIONS THAT THEIR ORDERS
HAD BEEN RECEIVED.
THAT COULD CAUSE PROBLEMS --
TRAIRSD TO HAVE TO RESEND ORDERS
AND HAVE DUPLICATE ORDERS IN THE
SYSTEM.
AT FIRST, IT LOOKED LIKE A
ROUTINE GLITCH.
BY 11:30, THE EXCHANGE MADE THE
DECISION TO SHUT DOWN TRADING ON
THAT EXCHANGE.
THERE ARE ELEVEN OFFICIAL STOCK
EXCHANGES IN THE U.S. RIGHT NOW
AND IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF 50
ALTERNATIVE VENUES WHERE TRADES
CAN BE MATCHED, SO THE MARKET
WAS ABLE TO FUNCTION PRETTY MUCH
AS NORM.
THEY ROUTED ORDERS AWAY FROM THE
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE TO THE
OTHER EXCHANGES OUT THERE.
THAT SAID, IT CERTAINLY IS THE
TYPE OF THING THAT CAN AFFECT
INVESTOR CONFIDENCE, ESPECIALLY
AFTER A LONG SERIES OF GLITCHES
ON ELECTRONIC EXCHANGES WE'VE
SEEN IN THE LAST FEW YEARS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
OTHER TWO INSTITUTIONS?
UNITED AIRLINES WHERE DELIGHTS
WERE DELAYED OR CANCELED AND THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
>> UNITED HAD AN ISSUE WITH THE
COMPUTER ROUTER THAT CONNECTS
VARIOUS NETWORKS AND CAUSED THEM
NOT TO BE ABLE TO ISSUE TICKETS
TO PASSENGERS AND NOT BE ABLE TO
DISPATCH STAFF PROPERLY, SO IT
SHUT DOWN FLIGHTS FOR ABOUT TWO
HOURS.
AT THE SAME TIME, ABOUT 20
MINUTES OR SO AFTER THE NEW YORK
STOCK EXCHANGE WENT DOWN, THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" HOME PAGE,
A AS YOU SAID, STARTED HAVING
ISSUES AND WAS UNAVAILABLE.
SO THERE WAS A LOT OF SORT OF
SPECULATION FLOWING THROUGH THE
MARKETS THAT ALL THREE INSTANCES
WERE RELATED AND THAT THERE WAS
SOME SORT OF TARGETED ATTACK ON
THE U.S.
THOSE CONCERNS WERE DISMISSED
PRETTY QUICKLY.
YOU KNOW, THE OFFICIALS FROM THE
COMPANIES SAID THAT THEY WERE
NOT RELATED.
HOMELAND SECURITY SAID IT DID
NOT APPEAR CYBERATTACKS WERE THE
ISSUE.
SO AT THE MOMENT, LOOKS LIKE IT
WAS JUST THREE SEPARATE COMPUTER
ISSUES AT THREE SEPARATE
COMPANIES.
IT IS POSSIBLE THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" GOT A LOT OF HEAVY
TRAFFIC AFTER THE NEW YORK STOCK
EXCHANGE SHUT DOWN, WHEN PEOPLE
WENT TO LOOK UP NEWS ABOUT WHAT
WAS GOING ON.
ALTHOUGH THEY HAVEN'T SAID IT,
IT SOUNDS LIKE A PLAUSIBLE
EXPLANATION.
>> Woodruff: KEVIN MANDIA,
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT IN
TERMS OF WHAT WAS THE CAUSE AND
WHETHER THERE WAS A POSSIBILITY
OF SOME CYBERATTACK?
>> WELL, ANYTIME YOUR NETWORK
GOES DARK, YOU HAVE A SOFTWARE
PROBLEM OR A SECURITY PROBLEM,
IT'S ONE OF THE THREE OR A
COMBINATION, BUT RIGHT NOW I'M
HEARING IT'S A SOFTWARE GLITCH
OR HARDWARE PROBLEM AND NO ONE'S
TALKING ABOUT A SECURITY ISSUE
HERE.
WHAT WE CAN TAKE FROM THIS,
THOUGH, IS WHEN THERE ARE
ATTACKS OR SECURITY ISSUES, IT'S
GOOD TO HAVE A SECOND WAY OF
DOING BUSINESS, THE OLD
FASHIONED WAY T OF DOING THINGS,
WHETHER HARDWARE, SOFTWARE OR
SECURITY ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: KEVIN MANDIA,
WHAT DOES THIS TELL US, IF
ANYTHING, ABOUT THE
VULNERABILITY OF THESE BIG
SYSTEMS -- AND I REALIZE THEY'RE
ALL VERY DIFFERENT OPERATIONS --
BECAUSE WE KNOW THE TECHNOLOGY
IS GETTING BIGGER AND MORE
COMPLEX, WHAT DOES IT SAY ABOUT
THEIR ABILITY TO HANDLE THAT?
>> WELL, WE RELY ON THESE
THINGS, BUT I THINK WE'RE DOING
PRETTY GOOD.
IT'S HARD TO BE IN THE AIRLINES
AND GO DARK OR A NEWS COMPANY
LIKE THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
OR THE STOCK EXCHANGE AND GO
DARK AND HAVE NOBODY TO NOTICE.
THERE'S NOWHERE TO HIDE WHEN YOU
HAVE AN ISSUE LIKE THIS BUT THEY
DON'T COME UP REV DAY AND I
SUSPECT WE'LL GO MULTIPLE YEARS
BEFORE SOMETHING LIKE THIS
HAPPENS AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: MICHAEL REGAN, AS
SOMEBODY WHO COVERS THE
EXCHANGES AND WALL STRT,EE HOW
VULNERABLE DO THESE INSTITUTIONS
THINK THEY ARE FOR THIS SORT OF
THING?
DO THEY FEEL THEY ARE PREPARED
FOR WHAT MAY?
>> THE U.S. STOCK MARKET HAS
BECOME A MASSIVE COMPUTER SYSTEM
SPREAD OUT OVER SO MANY
DIFFERENT EXCHANGES.
THESE GLITCHES HAPPEN FROM TIME
TO TIME, BUT THIS ONE MADE
HEADLINES BECAUSE IT'S THE
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE,IS,IST N
ICON.
IT SHOWS IT'S GOOD THE SYSTEM IS
SPREAD OUT OVER THESE MANY
EXCHANGES.
WHEN ONE GOES DOWN, THE OTHERS
TAKE UP THE SLACK AND TAKE OVER
THE BUSINESS FOR THEM
TEMPORARILY, AND, YOU KNOW, IN
THAT RESPECT, IT WAS A SUCCESS
TODAY THAT THE SYSTEM OPERATED
THAT WAY.
THAT SAID, DOLLAR LOT OF
PEOPLE -- THERE ARE A LOT OF
PEOPLE, A LOT OF CRITICS OF THE
INDUSTRY THAT BELIEVE IT HAS
GOTTEN WAY TOO COMPLEX, THAT WE
DON'T NEED 11 STOCK EXCHANGES
AND THE OTHER VENUES, THAT MAYBE
FOUR OR FIVE WOULD BE ENOUGH,
AND THIS IS CERTAINLY GOING TO
REIGNITE THE DEBATE ABOUT
WHETHER THE MARKET HAS BECOME
TOO COMPLEX.
>> Woodruff: WELL, PICK THAT
UP, KEVIN MANDIA, WHETHER IT'S
THE STOCK EXCHANGE OR THE
AIRLINES OR ANOTHER BIG
INSTITUTION, HOW PREPARED ARE
THEY FOR THE KIND OF INCREDIBLY
MORE COMPLICATED TECHNOLOGICAL
WORLD WE KNOW WE'RE HEADING
INTO?
>> WELL, EVERYBODY IS TRYING TO
GET MORE PREPARED.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE ALL DOING.
IF YOU LOOK OVER THE LAST 15
YEARS IN CYBERSECURITY, THERE
HAVE BEEN MORE AND MORE ATTACKS,
THE WATERMARK OF SECURITY IS
GOING UP IN OUR NATION BECAUSE
EVERYBODY IS MORE AWARE WITH ALL
THE HEADLINES ON ALMOST A DAILY
BASIS OF ANOTHER ATTACK AND
ANOTHER THREAT.
WE DON'T HAVE GOOD RULES IN
CYBERSPACE NOW.
WE HAVE COUNTRIES HACKING OTHER
COUNTRIES, WE HAVE CRIMINALS
TRYING TO HACK ON A DAILY BASIS,
SO EVERYONE IS GETTING MORE
PREPARED FOR THAT.
WHEN YOU'RE HACKED EITHER BY A
15-YEAR-OLD KID OR MILITARY
GARNERING INTELLIGENCE FROM YOUR
ORGANIZATION, THE LIABILITIES
ARE THE SAME, TO EVERYBODY IS
RAISING AWARENESS.
>> Woodruff: KEVIN MANDIA,
MICHAEL REGAN, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: EARLIER IN THE DAY,
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WENT TO
CAPITOL HILL TO MAKE ITS CASE
OVER ACCESSING ENCRYPTED
INFORMATION.
ESSENTIALLY THE GOVERNMENT WANTS
TO BE ABLE TO READ CERTAIN DATA
THAT INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES
CANNOT DO NEC
PROTECTED WITH SPECIAL CODES.
THAT'S AT THE HEART OF AN
ONGOING BATTLE WITH TECH
COMPANIES.
>> ENCRYPTION IS A GREAT THING.
IT KEEPS US ALL SAFE.
IT PROTECTS INNOVATION.
>> Ifill: BUT F.B.I. DIRECTOR
JAMES COMEY WARNED AT SENATE
HEARINGS TODAY IT'S ALSO A
DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE TECHNOLOGIES
THAT SEAL OFF SMARTPHONES FROM
SURVEILLANCE, ALSO IMPEDE
EFFORTS TO TRACK CRIMINALS AND
TERRORISTS.
>> WE ARE MOVING INEXORABLY TO A
PLACE WHERE ALL OF OUR LIVES,
ALL OF OUR PAPERS AND EFFECTS,
ALL OF OUR COMMUNICATIONS WILL
BE COVERED BY UNIVERSAL STRONG
ENCRYPTION.
AND THAT IS A WORLD THAT IN SOME
WAYS IS WONDERFUL, AND IN SOME
WAYS HAS SERIOUS PUBLIC SAFETY
RAMIFICATIONS.
>> Ifill: GOOGLE, APPLE AND
OTHER TECH FIRMS HAVE RAMPED UP
DATA ENCRYPTION, IN THE WAKE OF
EDWARD SNOWDEN'S REVELATIONS OF
SWEEPING GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE.
THEY'RE ALSO RESPONDING TO
STEPPED-UP HACKING COMING FROM
RUSSIA AND CHINA.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, ISLAMIC
STATE FOLLOWERS AND OTHER
MILITANTS ARE NOW USING
ENCRYPTED COMMUNICATIONS TO
RECRUIT, AT A RAPID PACE.
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL SALLY
YATES UNDERSCORED THAT POINT
TODAY.
>> ISIL CURRENTLY COMMUNICATES
ON TWITTER, SENDING
COMMUNICATIONS TO THOUSANDS OF
WOULD-BE FOLLOWERS RIGHT HERE IN
OUR COUNTRY.
WHEN SOMEONE RESPONDS AND THE
CONVERSATIONS BEGIN, THEY ARE
THEN DIRECTED TO ENCRYPTED
PLATFORMS FOR FURTHER
COMMUNICATION.
AND EVEN WITH A COURT ORDER, WE
CAN'T SEE THOSE COMMUNICATIONS.
THIS IS A SERIOUS THREAT.
AND OUR INABILITY TO ACCESS
THESE COMMUNICATIONS WITH VALID
COURT ORDERS IS A REAL NATIONAL
SECURITY PROBLEM.
>> Ifill: AND, THE F.B.I.'S
COMEY SUGGESTED IT'S JUST A
MATTER OF TIME BEFORE THAT LEADS
TO A TERROR ATTACK.
>> WE ARE STOPPING THESE THINGS
SO FAR THROUGH TREMENDOUS HARD
WORK, THE USE OF SOURCES, THE
USE OF ONLINE UNDERCOVERS, BUT
IT IS INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT.
I CANNOT SEE ME STOPPING THESE
INDEFINITELY.
>> Ifill: IN A NEW REPORT, 14 OF
THE WORLD'S TOP CRYPTOGRAPHERS
AND COMPUTER SCIENTISTS ARGUE
THAT GIVING THE GOVERNMENT
ACCESS, WILL COMPROMISE
COMMERCIAL AND CONSUMER SECRETS.
OTHERS FOCUSED TODAY ON PRIVACY
CONCERNS.
PETER SWIRE, WITH THE GEORGIA
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, SAID
THE GOVERNMENT ALREADY HAS
PLENTY OF WAYS TO TRACK PEOPLE.
>> FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HUMAN
HISTORY, MOST OF US CARRY
TRACKING DEVICES CALLED CELL
PHONES.
AND WHEN YOU ADD IN VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE AND THE UPCOMING
INTERNET OF THINGS, EVIDENCE
ABOUT A SUSPECT'S WHEREABOUTS AT
A TIME AND DATE IS FAR, FAR MORE
TENOF AVAILABLE THEN EVER
BEFORE.
>> Ifill: ULTIMATELY, FEDERAL
OFFICIALS SAID, THEY HOPE TO
WORK WITH TECH FIRMS
TO STRIKE A BALANCE BETWEEN
PRIVACY INTERESTS AND PUBLIC
SAFETY.
BUT WHERE IS THAT PROPER
BALANCE?
FOR THAT WE GET TWO VIEWS.
STEWART BAKER WAS ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY
DURING THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL
COUNCIL AT THE NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY DURING 1990s AND SUSAN
LANDAU IS ONE OF THE AUTHORS OF
THE PAPER OBJECTING TO MORE
GOVERNMENT ACCESS.
SHE'S A PROFESSOR OF
CYBERSECURITY POLICY AT THE
WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE.
STEWART BAKER, WE'VE HEARD JAMES
SAY MANY THINGS, AMONG THEM HE
WROTE THERE'S NO DOUBT BAD
PEOPLE CAN COMMUNICATE AND THAT
HE ESSENTIALLY CAN'T STOP THEM
WITH IMPUNITY.
TELL ME HOW THAT WORKS.
>> SO IT IS POSSIBLE NOW TO
WRITE CODES THAT NO ONE CAN
BREAK AND TO USE THOSE CODES TO
COMMUNICATE -- TO STORE
EVERYTHING ON YOUR PHONE IN AN
ENCRYPTED FASHION OR TO
COMMUNICATE WITH CO-CONSPIRATORS
IN A FASHION, REALLY FOR THE
FIRST TIME SINCE WE'VE HAD
MODERN COMMUNICATIONS, THAT NO
GOVERNMENT CAN GET INTO.
SO GOVERNMENT INTEL LOSES,
SLOWLY, THE ABILITY TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT PEOPLE ARE
SAYING TO EACH OTHER ON MODERN
COMMUNICATIONS.
HASN'T HAPPENED YET, BUT IT
CLEARLY IS GETTING READY TO
HAPPEN AS ENCRYPTION BECOMES
UBIQUITOUS.
>> Ifill: SUSAN LANDAU, WHAT'S
THE DANGER IN THE GOVERNMENT
HAVING ANOTHER TOOL IN WHICH
THEY CAN USE TO PROTECT US?
>> SO IT'S NOT A QUESTION OF
HAVING ANOTHER TOOL.
THE REAL ISSUE IS WHETHER OR NOT
WE SHOULD HAVE WHAT THEY CALL
EXCEPTIONAL ACCESS, ACCESS TO
ENCRYPTED COMMUNICATIONS, AND
EXCEPTIONAL ACCESS DESCRIBED IN
THE ABSTRACT SOUNDS GOOD, BUT
YOU HAVE TO ACTUALLY THINK ABOUT
IT IN PARTICULARS.
FOR, EXAMPLE, ONE TECHNOLOGY
THAT'S WITHIN INTRODUCED IS
CALLED FORWARD SECRECY.
FORWARD SECRECY IS THE IDEA THAT
YOU HAVE A KEY THAT YOU USE AN
EPHEMERAL KEY TO ENSCRIPT YOUR
COMMUNICATIONS SO, IF AT ANY
POINT YOUR KEY IS STOLEN, ALL
PAST COMMUNICATIONS ARE SECURE.
SO SONY HAD BECOME AWARE, FOR
EXAMPLE, WHEN ITS DATA WAS
STOLEN.
IT COULD HAVE CHANGED KEYS AND
NO COMMUNICATIONS COULD HAVE
BEEN INTERCEPTED, BUT EVEN MORE
IMPORTANTLY, ALL THE OLD
COMMUNICATIONS WOULD HAVE BEEN
SAFE AGAINST THE PEOPLE WHO
HACKED SONY.
THAT'S THE ISSUE.
THE ISSUE IS THAT THE GOVERNMENT
IS SAYING EXCEPTIONAL ACCESS
WITHOUT EXPLAINING HOW THEY WANT
THIS DONE, AND ALL SECURITY
MATTERS IN THE DETAILS.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THAT.
THE GOVERNMENT IS ASKING
BASICALLY FOR COMPANIES TO SHARE
KEYS, TO ALLOW BACKDOOR ACCESS
TO INFORMATION FOR NATIONAL
SECURITY PURPOSES.
WHAT ARE THE LIMITS OF THAT?
>> I THINK WHAT'S CLEAR IS WHAT
THE GOVERNMENT ISN'T TRYING TO
SAY, THIS IS EXACTLY HOW WE WANT
YOU TO DO IT, BECAUSE I'M SURE
THAT SUSAN LANDAU WOULD BE
SAYING, WELL, THAT WON'T WORK
AND WE'VE GOT THESE OBJECTIONS
TO BEING TOLD HOW TO DO IT.
THE GOVERNMENT IS SAYING, HERE'S
A PROBLEM, WE THINK IT NEEDS TO
BE SOLVED, THERE MAY BE MULTIPLE
WAYS TO SOLVE IT, AND, INDEED,
THERE ARE.
IT IS POSSIBLE, FOR EXAMPLE, FOR
THE COMPANIES THAT MAKE THIS
ENCRYPTION POSSIBLE TO KEEP KEYS
OR TO STORE THE DATA ENCRYPTED
WITH THEIR OWN KEYS AS WELL AS
WITH THE USERS' KEYS.
THIS IS REALLY WHAT THE
COMPANIES WERE DOING UNTIL
RECENTLY.
>> Ifill: SUSAN LANDAU, YOU
WROTE SOMEWHERE YOU CONSIDERED
THIS MAGICAL THINKING.
EXPLAIN WHY.
>> RIGHT.
SO WHEN STU MENTIONS THE IDEA OF
KEEPING THE DATA SECURE AT THE
COMPANIES, WE HAVE NUMEROUS
EXAMPLES.
FOR EXAMPLES THE GOOGLE DATABASE
OF SURVEILLANCE TARGETS WAS
HACKED PRESUMABLY BY CHINESE
PACK HACKERS, AND WHAT IT DID
WAS A GREAT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
OPERATION THAT EXPOSED WHICH
AGENTS WERE UNDER U.S.
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE.
WHAT WE'VE SEEN OVER AND OVER
AGAIN IS THAT, WITH A DETERMINED
OPPONENT, THE DATA IS NOT
SECURE.
THE ONLY WAY IT'S SECURE IS IF
THERE'S END-TO-END ENCRYPTION.
I COMPLETELY AGREE WITH THE
DIRECTOR THAT IT MAKES THE
F.B.I. AND LAW ENFORCEMENT'S JOB
MORE DIFFICULT, BUT THE QUESTION
IS BALANCING DIFFERENT TYPES OF
SECURITY AGAINST EACH OTHER.
AND STU IS CORRECT THAT I WANT
SPECIFIC SUGGESTIONS BECAUSE THE
IDEA THAT WE COULD COME UP WITH
SOME MAGIC SOLUTION THAT SOLVES
THE PROBLEM ISN'T CORRECT.
YOU NEED SPECIFIC SOLUTIONS, YOU
NEED TO ANALYZE THEM CAREFULLY
TO SEE WHERE SECURITY VOL
NECIALS ARE SO YOU DON'T
INTRODUCE MORE PROBLEMS.
>> Ifill: WHAT IS THE
GOVERNMENT ASKING FOR THAT'S
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT THEY ALREADY
HAVE?
>> THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE AS THE
ENCRYPTION BECOMES UBIQUITOUS
THAT IT DOESN'T LEAVE THEM
HELPLESS EVEN WHEN THEY HAVE A
COURT ORDER.
THEY'RE ASKING COMPANIES TO TAKE
THAT CONCERN SERIOUSLY AND NOT
SIMPLY SAY, THAT'S NOT OUR
PROBLEM, WE'RE PUTTING
END-TO-END STRONG ENCRYPTION OUT
THERE AND IF TERRORISTS OR
PEDOPHILES USE IT, THAT'S YOUR
PROBLEM, TOO, NOT OURS.
AND WHAT THE DIRECTOR IS SAYING
IS, NO, THAT'S A SOCIAL PROBLEM
AND THERE ARE SECURITY RISKS
BUILT IN FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO
GET ACCESS TO THAT BUT THERE ARE
SECURITY RISKS OF A VERY
DIFFERENT SORT IF WE DON'T HAVE
ACCESS TO THOSE COMMUNICATIONS.
>> Ifill: SUSAN LANDAU, IS
THERE MIDDLE GROUND, SOMETHING
YOU CAN IMAGINE THE TECH
COMPANIES COULD CONCEDE TO ALLOW
THE GOVERNMENT GET A GREATER
ACCESS BUT MAYBE NOT THE BLANKET
ACCESS THEY MAY DESIRE?
>> THERE IS NO EASY WAY TO
ENABLE EASY ACCESS TO
EVERYBODY'S COMMUNICATIONS AND
DATA AT RISK UNLESS YOU HAVE THE
KEYS STORED IN AN INSECURE WAY.
THAT'S WHY OUR TECH REPORT WAS
VERY CLEAR -- TELL US THE
PROPOSAL, DON'T SAY YOU CAN DO
IT, BUT TELL US THE PROPOSAL AND
WE CAN LOOK AT IT AND ANALYZE
IT.
THERE IS ALSO AN ISSUE THAT
HASN'T BEEN BROUGHT UP WHICH IS
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU HAVE A
MULTI-NATIONAL FIRM AND
COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE U.S.
AND THE U.K. OR THE U.S. AND
FRANCE OR THE U.S. AND CHINA?
DO BOTH COUNTRIES HAVE ACCESS?
HOW DO YOU MANAGE THAT?
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A U.S. PERSON
TRAVELS OVERSEAS?
IF WE'RE GOING TO DEMAND THIS
SORT OF THING, THEN, OF COURSE,
OTHER NATIONS WILL, AND THEN
U.S. COMMUNICATIONS WILL BE
QUITE INSECURE.
>> Ifill: SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE
RIGHT.
THERE IS NO EASY ONE.
SUSAN LANDAU, STEWART BAKER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> A PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: CONCERN CONTINUES
TO RISE ACROSS THE COUNTRY ABOUT
THE NATION'S AGING
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THAT CONCERN IS PARTICULARLY
APPARENT WHEN LOOKING AT OLDER
PIPELINES THAT CARRY CRUDE OIL
AND NATURAL GAS.
ONE OF THOSE PIPELINES CARRIES
OIL UNDER SOME OF THE MOST
PRISTINE WATER IN THE COUNTRY:
THE GREAT LAKES STRAITS OF
MACKINAC IN MICHIGAN.
SCIENTISTS SAY A SPILL IN THE
AIDISASTER.
ELIZABETH BRACKETT FROM PUBLIC
TELEVISON STATION WTTW IN
CHICAGO REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THE AIR IS CRISP
AND THE WATER IS COOL IN THE
NORTHERN GREAT LAKES, A BODY OF
WATER THAT CONTAINS 90% OF THE
FRESH WATER IN THE UNITED
STATES.
AND IT'S THE REASON NEARLY A
EVERY YEAR.
>> BACK FOR ANOTHER SEASON?
ALL RIGHT.
>> Reporter: BUT THIS YEAR,
ISLANDERS HAVE MORE ON THEIR
MINDS THAN TOURISTS.
JUST NORTH OF THE FAMED MACKINAC
BRIDGE TWO AGING PIPELINES CARRY
20 MILLION GALLONS OF CRUDE OIL
AND NATURAL GAS A DAY UNDER THE
STRAITS OF MACKINAC.LONG TIME ID
FORMER BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
PROFESSOR LORNA STRAUS WORRIES
ABOUT A POSSIBLE PIPELINE BREAK.
>> IT WOULD BE A DEVASTATING
THING, OIL IS VERY HARD TO CLEAN
UP.
SO I GUESS I'M WORRIED THAT A
LEAK WOULD BE A CLOSE TO
IMPOSSIBLE THING TO SOLVE.
>> Reporter: PIPELINE NUMBER 5
IS OWNED BY ENBRIDGE ENERGY.
THE CANADIAN COMPANY OPERATES
THE LARGEST CRUDE OIL AND
LIQUIDS PIPELINE SYSTEM IN THE
WORLD.
LINE 5 IS 645 MILES LONG.
IT STRETCHES FROM WISCONSIN
ACROSS MICHIGAN'S UPPER AND
LOWER PENINSULAS AND TERMINATES
IN ONTARIO, CANADA.
THE 30 INCH PIPELINE SPLITS INTO
TWO 20 INCH LINES WHEN IT
CROSSES 41/2 MILE UNDER THE
LAKE.
LAKE MICHIGAN AND LAKE HURON
JOIN HERE AT THE STRAITS OF
MACKINAC.
BECAUSE THIS AREA IS FAR FROM
ANY MAJOR URBAN CENTER AND
BECAUSE THE SHORELINE IS LINED
WITH FOREST AND NOT AGRICULTURE,
VERY LITTLE POLLUTION GETS INTO
THIS WATER.
THAT MEANS THESE WATERS ARE SOME
OF THE MOST PRISTINE IN ALL OF
THE GREAT LAKES.
30 MILLION PEOPLE DEPEND ON THE
GREAT LAKES FOR THEIR DRINKING
WATER.
AND COMPANY SPOKESMAN JASON
MANSHUM SAYS THAT'S ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY ENBRIDGE WORKS SO
HARD TO KEEP LINE 5 SAFE.
>> LINE 5 HAS BEEN IN OPERATION
IN MICHIGAN FOR MORE THAN 60
YEARS AND IT'S BEEN OPERATING
SAFELY AND RELIABLY AT THE
STRAITS, WE'VE NOT HAD ANY
INCIDENTS OVER THAT 4 1/2 MILE
STRETCH.
>> Reporter: IT'S THOSE 62 YEARS
UNDER WATER FOR PIPELINE 5 THAT
TROUBLE RETIRED DOW CHEMICAL
ENGINEER GARY STREET.
>> MY BIGGEST CONCERN IS THAT
THE LINE IS VERY, VERY OLD, IT'S
PROBABLY SUFFERED THE USUAL WEAR
AND TEAR THAT ANY OLDER FACILITY
CAN SUFFER.
I THINK THERE'S A REAL REASON TO
BE CONCERNED THAT THE LINE COULD
FAIL AT ALMOST ANY TIME.
>> IN THE LAST DECADE ENBRIDGE
HAS SAFELY TRANSPORTED MORE THAN
13 BILLION GALLONS OF CRUDE OIL
THROUGHOUT THE US AND CANADA.
THAT'S A SUCCESS RATE OF
99.9993%.
>> Reporter: BUT A NATIONAL
WILDLIFE FEDERATION REPORT FOUND
THAT ENBRIDGE WAS RESPONSIBLE
FOR MORE THAN 800 OIL SPILLS
BETWEEN 1999 AND 2010.
AGING PIPELINES ARE A NATIONAL
CONCERN.
OVER 5,000 SPILLS IN THE 124,000
MILES OF PIPELINE WERE REPORTED
TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OVER
THE LAST 15 YEARS, INCLUDING
THIS MAJOR SPILL IN MICHIGAN.
IN JULY OF 2010 AN ENBRIDGE
PIPELINE RUPTURED IN THE
KALAMAZOO RIVER DUMPING 1
MILLION GALLONS OF OIL NEAR
MARSHALL, MICHIGAN.
ENBRIDGE SPENT $1 BILLION AND
THREE YEARS ON CLEAN UP AND THE
EPA SAYS OIL STILL REMAINS IN
THE KALAMAZOO.
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVIST JIM
LIVELY SAYS IT WAS THAT SPILL
THAT PROMPTED CONCERN ABOUT THE
SAFETY OF THE ENBRIDGE PIPELINE
IN THE STRAITS OF MACKINAC.
>STE THAT SPILL
THEY SAID VERY MUCH THE SAME
THING, NO CONCERNS THIS PIPELINE
IS VERY SAFE AND THEN IT LEAKED
FOR 17 HOURS OVER A MILLION
GALLONS INTO THE KALAMAZOO
RIVER, THE LARGEST INLAND OIL
SPILL IN AMERICA HAPPENED RIGHT
HERE IN MICHIGAN.
>> THE INCIDENT IN THE KALAMAZOO
RIVER ULTIMATELY MADE US A FAR
SAFER COMPANY.
WE HAVE GONE THROUGH PRETTY
RADICAL WHOLESALE CHANGES ACROSS
THE BOARD IN THINGS LIKE
ADVANCED LEAK DETECTION,
PIPELINE INTEGRITY, TRAINING OF
PERSONNEL, TRAINING OF FIRST
RESPONDERS SO THEY KNOW HOW TO
DETECT A LEAK AND HOW TO RESPOND
WITH BOOTS ON THE GROUND.
>> Reporter: THE PIPELINE IN THE
STRAITS IS NOW MONITORED WITH
COMPUTERIZED SYSTEMS THAT
OPERATE BOTH INSIDE AND OUTSIDE
THE PIPELINE.
THE FINDINGS ARE ANALYZED IN
ENBRIDGE'S STATE OF THE ART
CONTROL ROOM THAT OPERATES 24/7
IN EDMONTON, CANADA.
IN ADDITI, MAONNSHUM SAYS DIVE
TEAMS PHYSICALLY INSPECT THE
PIPELINE EVERY OTHER YEAR.
>> IT HASN'T AGED IN THE BOTTOM
OF THE WATER.
THE COATING IS IN FANTASTIC
SHAPE AND THE STEEL HAS NOT
DETERIORATED, IT LOOKS JUST LIKE
IT DID IN 1953.
>> Reporter: THERE IS ONE
DIFFERENCE, THE PIPELINE IS NOW
COVERED WITH INVASIVE MUSSELS
WHICH DIDN'T ENTER THE GREAT
LAKES UNTIL THE 1980'S.
>> ZEBRA MUSSELS CREATE THREE
PROBLEMS.
THEY CREATE EXTRA WEIGHT ON THE
PIPELINE, WEIGHT THAT WAS NEVER
ALLOWED FOR IN THE DESIGN OF THE
PIPELINE.
THEY MASK ANY PROBLEMS FROM THE
OUTSIDE THAT COULD BE OBSERVED
BY A DIVER OR BY A REMOTE CAMERA
AND THE THIRD THING IS THE ZEBRA
MUSSELS EXCRETE A VERY ACID
MATERIAL.
IF THAT ACID MATERIAL WERE TO
GET BEHIND THE PROTECTIVE
COATING, IT WILL CAUSE CORROSION
AND THE LINE WOULD FAIL
PREMATURELY.
>> Reporter: WHAT NEARLY
EVERYONE UP HERE AGREES ON, EVEN
ENBRIDGE, IS THAT AN OIL SPILL
IN THESE PRISTINE WATERS WOULD
HAVE A MAJOR IMPACT.
ECOLOGIST KNUTE NADELHOFFER OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S
BIOLOGICAL FIELD STATION SAYS
THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF A
SPILL COULD TAKE YEARS TO
OVERCOME.
>> THIS IS A FAIRLY SIMPLE FOOD
CHAIN.
WE HAVE A LIMITED NUMBER OF
ALGAE IN THE WATER, LIMITED
NUMBER OF SPECIES, AQUATIC
PLANTS ON THE SHORELINES
COMPARED TO MORE DIVERSE OCEAN
SYSTEMS, CHEMICALS WILL
PROPAGATE THROUGH THIS SYSTEM
FASTER.
THEY ARE LIKELY TO CHANGE THIS
SYSTEM FOR DECADES OR CENTURIES.
>> Reporter: AS THE MAYOR OF
MACKINAC ISLAND GETS READY TO
OPEN HER HOTEL FOR THE SEASON
IT'S NOT THE NEXT DECADE OR
CENTURY SHE'S THINKING ABOUT.
IT'S THE IMPACT OF AN OIL SPILL
RIGHT NOW.
>> MACKINAC IS THE GEM OF
MICHIGAN AS FAR AS THE TOURISM
INDUSTRY GOES.
SO IF ANYTHING SHOULD EVER
HAPPEN IT WOULD BE CATASTROPHIC.
>> Reporter: ENBRIDGE INSISTS A
PIPELINE FAILURE IN THE STRAITS
WOULD BE DETECTED ALMOST
IMMEDIATELY.
>> WE HAVE ISOLATION VALVES ON
EITHER SIDE OF THE STRAITS AND
THOSE VALVES WOULD BE COMPLETELY
CLOSED WITHIN THREE MINUTES.
>> YOU SHUT THE LINE AT MACKINAC
CITY YOU SHUT IT OFF AT ST.
IGCE, NAYOU STILL HAVE 3,000
GALLONS IN EACH OF THOSE LINES
THAT COULD SPILL, THAT CAN AND
WILL SPILL, WILL SPILL INTO THE
STRAITS.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHY
ACTIVISTS SAY THE ONLY SURE WAY
TO AVOID A POSSIBLE
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC
DISASTER IS TO SHUT THE PIPELINE
DOWN.
>> I BELIEVE THAT ENBRIDGE IS
TRYING HARD TO MAKE SURE THEY
COULD MINIMIZE A SPILL, OF
COURSE THEY'RE TRYING HARD TO
DO THAT.
BUT DO I TRUST THEM, NO.
SHOULD WE TRUST THEM, OF COURSE
NOT, NOT WITH THIS, NOT WITH THE
GREAT LAKES.
>> Reporter: SHUTTING DOWN THE
PIPELINE IS ONE OF THE OPTIONS
BEING CONSIDERED BY A PIPELINE
TASK FORCE CHAIRED BY MICHIGAN'S
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
THE COMMISSION WILL ALSO LOOK AT
THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF SHUTTING
DOWN THE 4 1/2 MILE STRETCH
UNDER THE STRAITS OF MACKINAC.
PBS NEWSHOUR FROM CHICAGO.
>> Ifill: THE CHINESE STOCK
MARKET HAS BEEN IN FREE FALL
OVER THE PAST MONTH, SPURRING
WORRIES THAT THE CONTAGION COULD
SPREAD BEYOND THE MASSIVERS.
MARGARET WARNER HAS THE STORY.
>> Warner: ANOTHER BRUTAL DAY
RAVAGED CHINA'S TWO MAIN STOCK
MARKETS-- IN SHANGHAI AND
SHENZHEN-- AS A THREE-WEEK
PLUNGE ACCELERATED.
SMALL INVESTORS-- WHO MAKE UP
85% OF CHINA'S TRADERS-- HAVE
BEEN HIT HARD: PEOPLE LIKE 67-
YEAR-OLD HE MEIZHEN.
YEAR-OLD HE MEIZHEN. >> (
translated): WHEN I LOOK
>> (translated): WHEN I
LOOK AT THE INDEX, I FEEL
NERVOUS ALL
AT THE INDEX, I FEEL NERVOUS ALL
OVER MY BODY.
I'M WORRIED SO MUCH.
THE MARKET OPENS WITH PLUNGE TO
ITS DAILY LIMIT.
HOW CAN WE STAND IT?
>> Warner: THE BENCHMARK
"SHANGHAI COMPOSITE" INDEX LOST
ANOTHER 6% OF ITS VALUE.
IT'S DOWN MORE THAN 30 PERCENT
SINCE MID-JUNE, AND BY DAY'S
END, NEARLY HALF OF ALL STOCKS
ON THE TWO EXCHANGES HAD STOPPED
TRADING.
ALL OF THIS, DESPITE A SERIES OF
DRASTIC MOVES BY BEIJING TO REIN
IN THE SELLING.
FINANCIAL ANALYST MICHAEL EVERY-
- IN HONG KONG-- SAYS SO FAR,
NOTHING'S WORKED.
>> WILL THEY SUSPEND THE ENTIRE
MARKET?
POSSIBLY.
I DON'T THINK ANYTHING CAN BE
RULED OUT IF WE KEEP SEEING 8%
FALLS DAY AFTER DAY AFTER DAY.
ONE WOULD HOPE NOT, BECAUSE
CHINA WAS SUPPOSED TO BE MOVING
TOWARDS GREATER REFORMS IN THE
FINANCIAL MARKET AREA.
AND EVERYTHING THEY A DOIRENG AT
THE MOMENT IS BACKSLIDING FROM
THAT.
>> Warner: OSE THREFORMS TOWARD
GREATER LIBERALIZATION HAVE BEEN
PUSHED BY PRESIDENT XI XINPING.
AND FOR A TIME, THE MARKETS
SKYROCKETED.
FROM MID-JUNE 2014 TO MID-JUNE
2015, THE CHINESE MARKETS GAINED
150%.
EVEN AFTER RECENT LOSSES, THEIR
VALUE IS STILL UP 70% FROM A
YEAR AGO.
CHINESE REGULATORY OFFICIALS NOW
COMPLAIN OF "IRRATIONAL SELLING"
DRIVEN BY A "PANIC SENTIMENT".
OTHERS WORRY ABOUT WHAT
DESPERATE INVESTORS MIGHT DO.
DESPERATE INVESTORS MIGHT DO. >>
(translated): E
PETHOPLE
>> (translated): E
PETHOPLE WORK HARD TO MAKE
MONEY, THEY
WORK HARD TO MAKE MONEY, THEY
ARE NOT BOSSES, THEY WORK HARD,
OLDER PEOPLE USE THEIR
RETIREMENT PAYMENT, LIKE US,
SELLING THINGS ON THE STREET, TO
MAKE SOME MONEY.
PEOPLE MIGHT KILL PEOPLE, OR SET
FIRE TO THINGS, PEOPLE MIGHT
DIE.
>> Warner: U.S. OFFICIALS ARE
ALSO WATCHING CLOSELY.
TREASURY SECRETARY JACK LEW
COUNSELED CALM TODAY.
>> I WILL SAY THAT CHINA'S
MARKETS ARE STILL PRETTY MUCH
SEPARATED FROM WORLD MARKETS.
THEY'RE OBVIOUSLY MOVING TOWARDS
BEING MORE INTEGRATED, BUT RIGHT
NOW THEY'RE NOT, SO YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO-- I DON'T THINK-- SEE
THE DIRECT LINKAGE THERE
CONCERN.
I THINK THE CONCERN, IT IS A
REAL ONE, IS WHAT DOES IT MEAN
ABOUT LONG-TERM GROWTH IN CHINA?
>> Warner: STILL, THERE IS SOME
SPILLOVER: HONG KONG'S MAIN
INDEX DROPPED SHARPLY TODAY, AS
DID JAPAN'S, SOUTH KOREA'S AND
AUSTRALIA'S.
>> Ifill: AND MARGARET JOINS ME
NOW.
MARGARET JOINS ME NOW.
MARGARET, WHAT IS AT THE ROOT OF
THE SUDDEN SLIDE IN THE CHINESE
MARKET?
>> IT WAS REALLY CLASSIC
BUBBLELE.
THE CHINESE ECONOMIC GROWTH HAS
BEEN SLOWING AND THE GOVERNMENT
STARTED ENCOURAGING INDIVIDUAL
INVESTORS TO GET INTO THIS
MARKET AND HELP CAPITALIZE THESE
SMALL ENTREPRENEURIAL COMPANIES.
NOT THE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
BUT THE ONES WHO HAVE TROUBLE
GETTING MONEY FROM BANKS
SOMETIMES FOR GOOD REASON.
SO THEY RELAXED RESTRICTIONS
THAT USED TO NOT ALLOW YOU TO
BARROW MONEY TO FINANCE STOCK
PURCHASES.
SO THAT'S THE FIRST THING.
YOU HAD ALL THIS MARGIN LENDING.
IF THE MARKET GOES DOWN, THE
INVESTORS HAVE TO PAY BACK WITH
REAL MONEY, WHAT THEY'VE GOT IN
THE STOCK MARKET OR OTHER
ASSETS.
SECONDLY, AS THAT ALL DEVELOPED,
THE MOST -- THE ONES THAT WERE
CAUGHT ARE THESE SMALLER
INVESTORS WHICH ARE, AS WE SAID,
ARE 85% OF THE MARKET.
THESE ARE UNEDUCATED PEOPLE.
YOU CAN SEE IT IN THE QUOTES
THAT WE HAD FROM PEOPLE.
THEY ARE KNOWN AS MOMENTUM
INVESTORS.
THEY JUMPED IN IN APRIL, MAY
WHEN STOCKS WERE SELLING AT 150%
PRICE TO EARNINGS RATIO, EVEN
WORSE THAN THE NASDAQ BUBBLE
HERE IN 2000 IN THE U.S.
SO THEY ARE GETTING TREMENDOUSLY
HIT BECAUSE THEY WITH RESPECT IN
FOR THE RUN UP.
>> Ifill: DOES THAT MEAN THE
GOVERNMENT HAS HAD TO STEP IN TO
ARREST THIS?
NOT SO DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WE
HAD TO DO IN 2008.
>> TRUE UT HBERE'S THE
DIFFERENCE.
HERE'S STEPS THEY TOOK --
THEY'RE MAKING BROKERAGE FIRMS
BUY STOCKS AND ARE PUTTING MORE
MONEY INTO IT.
THE U.S. BAILED OUT BIG
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THEY
THOUGHT POSED A SYSTEMIC RISK TO
THE SYSTEM, TOO BIG TO FAIL,
CLASSIC.
BUT THEY SAID OUR TEST IS
RESTORING GDP GROWTH AND
EMPLOYMENT.
THEY DIDN'T MAKE THE MARKET THE
TEST.
SO PEOPLE DIDN'T SIT AND WATCH
HAT THEY DID IN CHINA IS SETD,
UP THE MARKETS AS A TEST OF
THEIR OWN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
AND THE WHOLE THEORY OF ECONOMIC
LIBERALIZATION AND THE DANGER
IS, OF COURSE, THAT MORE THEY DO
AND IT DOESN'T WORKOVER NIGHT,
THEN IT ENCOURAGES MORE PANIC
SELLING AND IT IS, IN FACT,
GOING TO MAKE PEOPLE LOSE
CONFIDENCE IN GOVERNMENT'S
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT.
>> Ifill: DOES THIS HAVE
POLITICAL RAMIFICATIONS FOR
PRESIDENT XI?
>> FOR SURE AND THAT'S WHAT THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT IS WORRIED
ABOUT.
THE PRESIDENT PRESENTED HIMSELF
AS AN ALL-POWERFUL LEADER, AND
GETTING INTO ECONOMIC
GLOBALIZATION WAS CONSIDERED A
VOTE OF CONFIDENCE IN HIS
SYSTEM.
SO YOU GET MORE PEOPLE.
AS SOMEBODY SAID TO ME LAST
NIGHT, HE OWNED THE RUNUP, HE
OWNS THE SLIDE.
CLEARLY, SECONDLY, THEY'RE
WORRIED ABOUT ECONOMIC POPULAR
DISCONTENT.
YOU CAN HEAR THAT FROM ONE OF
THE PEOPLE IN OUR PIECE THAT NOW
THAT MORE CHINESE-OWNED -- AND
IT'S SMALL COMPARED TO THE U.S.
IN THE U.S., 50% OF THE
AMERICANS ARE IN THE MARKET SOME
WAY.
IN CHINA, IT'S ONLY BEEN 10%.
BUT THIS PAST YEAR, BY
ESTIMATES, IT'S GONE UP TO 17%
AND THESE ARE POOR PEOPLE.
SO THAT IS THE THREAT.
AND THIRD, OF COURSE, IS THAT IF
PEOPLE DON'T FEEL CONFIDENT,
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BUY THINGS.
WELL, THIS IS A GOVERNMENT THAT
SAID, WE'RE GOING TO CHANGE OUR
ECONOMY FROM EXPORTS DRIVEN TO
CONSUMER DRIVEN.
>> Ifill: THAT'S WHAT'S
HAPPENING INSIDE CHINA.
IS THERE A POTENTIAL FOR THIS TO
SPREAD?
>> AS THE SECRETARY OF TREASURE
SAID TODAY NOT IN TERMS OF
INVESTMENT EXPOSURE.
BECAUSE THE CHINESE HAVE COUNTRY
THE MARKET SO INSULAR, ONLY 5%
OF THE INVESTORS ARE EVEN
FOREIGN.
BUT THE DANGER IS WITH SLOW
ECONOMIC GROWTH, BECAUSE IT'S
THE WORLD'S SECOND LARGEST
ECONOMY, WILL EFFECT OTHER
EXPORT-DRIVEN ECONOMIES AND
COULD HAVE A KNOCK-ON EFFECT ON
THE COMMITMENT OF PRESIDENT XI
TO CONTINUE WITH ECONOMIC
REFORMS.
>> Ifill: THANKS FOR KEEPING
US UP TO DATE.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: FROM FINANCIAL
PROBLEMS ABROAD TO A BIG MONEY
DEBATE IN THIS COUNTRY.
LAST WEEK, THE UNITED STATES'
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK HIT A
POLITICAL WALL.
BUSINESS EXPIRED AS CONGRESS
HOTLY DEBATES WHETHER IT SHOULD
EXIST.
THE BANK IS A MULTIBILLION-
DOLLAR GOVERNMENT AGENCY THAT
HELPS FOREIGN COMPANIES BUY
AMERICAN GOODS.
HERE'S HOW THAT WORKS.
AN AMERICAN COMPANY WANTS TO
SELL GOODS TO A FOREIGN
CORPORATION.
THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK THEN
GIVES THE FOREIGN COMPANY A LOAN
OR LOAN GUARANTEE AND THE
COMPANY BUYS THE GOODS FROM THE
AMERICAN BUSINESS.
IDEALLY, THE LOAN GETS REPAID,
BUT THERE IS A RISK TO TAXPAYERS
THAT THE FOREIGN COMPANY COULD
DEFAULT.
WHO EXACTLY BENEFITS?
LAST YEAR THE BANK FINANCED
NEARLY $30 BILLION WORTH OF U.S.
EXPORTS.
THE SINGLE LARGEST WINNER:
BOEING AND THE AIRCRAFT
INDUSTRY.
THOUSANDS OF SMALL BUSINESSES
ALSO GAINED WITH MORE THAN TEN
BILLION IN FINANCING.
BUT THE 81-YEAR-OLD BANK FACES
AN UNCERTAIN FUTURE-- SOME
CONSERVATIVES ARGUE IT IS A
BLOATED GOVERNMENT GIVE-AWAY--
WHILE OTHERS INSIST IT IS A
CRITICAL COMPETITIVE TOOL FOR
AMERICAN BUSINESS.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS FROM
CAPITOL HILL ARE TWO MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS: DEMOCRAT BRAD SHERMAN
OF CALIFORNIA AND REPUBLICAN JIM
JORDAN OF OHIO.
CONGRESSMAN SHERMAN, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH FOR JOINING US.
LET ME JUST BEGIN WITH ONE OF
THE MAIN CRITICISMS ONE HEARS
FROM REPUBLICANS AND THAT IS
THAT THE BANK BANK I THE EXPORTS
ALL ABOUT CORPORATE WELFARE,
THAT SOMETHING LIKE $8 BILLION
WENT, AS WE SAID LAST YEAR, TO
BOEING AND OTHER BIG COMPANIES
THAT REALLY DON'T NEED THIS KIND
OF GOVERNMENT HELP?
>> THE MONEY GOES TO THOSE WHO
ARE BUYING OUR PRODUCTS.
BY MAKING THESE LOANS, WE
SUPPORT TENS OF BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OF EXPORTS AND 164,000
JOBS.
MANY OF THOSE JOBS ARE WITH BIG
EMPLOYERS, OTHERS WITH SMALL
EMPLOYERS, INCLUDING BOEING
SUPPLIERS, BUT ROUGHLY 90% OF
THE BANK'S TOTAL TRANSACTIONS
ARE WITH SMALL BUSINESSES THAT
ARE EXPORTING.
WE NEED TO SUPPORT 164,000 JOBS
AND WE CAN'T SACRIFICE THEM IN
THE WORSHIP OF ANN RAND, THE
DEITY OF LIBERTARIANISM.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE ARGUMENT
IS IF THE BIG COMPANIES LIKE
BOEING GET THE LION'S CHAIR OF
THE MONEY.
>> BOEING DOESN'T GET THE MONEY.
THE MONEY GOES TO THE CUSTOMERS,
AND YOU'RE TRYING TO OUT-COMPETE
AIRBUS, FOR EXAMPLE, YOU'RE
TRYING TO OUT-COMPETE SOME OF
THE BEST COMPETITION IN THE
WORLD, WORLD-CLASS COMPETITION,
THEY HAVE THEIR FINANCE
AUTHORITIES, GERMANY HAS TRIPLED
THE SIZE THAT WE DO.
FRANCE, JAPAN, CHINA ARE ALL
USING THE SYSTEM TO GET THEIR
EXPORTERS THE CONTRACT.
IF WE DON'T GET THE CONTRACT, WE
LOSE THE 164,000 JOBS.
>> Woodruff: LET ME MAKE
ANOTHER POINT THAT ONE HEARS
FROM THE CRITICS AND THAT IS
THAT THIS EXPORT-IMPORT BANK IS
REALLY HELPING JUST A TINY
PERCENTAGE OF THE TOTAL EXPORTS
THE UNITED STATES ENGAGES IN,
THAT IT'S A DROP IN THE BUCKET
AND THAT IF THE BANK GOES AWAY,
IT'S NOT GOING TO MAKE MUCH
DIFFERENCE.
>> 164,000 JOBS IS JUST A DROP
IN THE BUCKET TO THE UNITED
STATES ECONOMY, BUT WE CAN'T
AFFORD TO GIVE UP ONE JOB.
WE CERTAINLY CAN'T AFFORD TO
GIVE UP 164,000 JOBS.
AND IF WE ABOLISHED EVERYTHING
WE DID IN WASHINGTON THAT
CREATED FEWER THAN 164,000 JOBS,
THEN WE WOULD LOSE 1% OF OUR
ECONOMY HERE, 1% OF OUR ECONOMY
THERE, AND JUST 1 OR 2%
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE WAS THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A HEALTHY AND
UNHEALTHY ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER
CRITICISM WE HEAR, AND IT'S
RELATED WHAT YOU JUST SAID, IS
THESE JOBS NUMBERS ARE TRULY
INFLATED, THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
CALCULATED, COOKED UP TO MAKE IT
LOOK LIKE THE BANK IS MAKING A
BIG DIFFERENCE WHEN, IN REALITY,
IT'S NOT THE CASE.
HOW CAN YOU -- WHAT DO YOU SAY
TO THE OPPONENTS, TO THE CRITICS
WHO SAY THESE ARE NOT REAL
NUMBERS?
>> IT'S CLEAR THAT THE EXPORTS
BEING FINANCED SUPPORT 164,000
JOBS.
NOW, YOU CAN GUESS HOW MANY OF
THOSE CONTRACTS WE WOULD HAVE
GOTTEGOTTEN OTHERWISE, BUT THATS
LIKE TELLING FORD TO ABANDON ITS
FINANCE PROMOTION AND PEOPLE
WILL STILL BUY THE CARS.
THE FACT IS CHEVY AND TOYOTA ARE
OFFERING PRETTY GOOD CARS AS
WELL.
THAT'S WHY FORD HAS, FROM TIME
TO TIME, FINANCE PROMOTION,
THAT'S WHY THE OTHER AUTO
COMPANIES DO AS WELL.
AND IF YOU TELL OUR COMPANIES WE
CANNOT HAVE FINANCE PROMOTION,
BUT THE GERMAN COMPANIES L THE
FRENCH, CHINESE COMPANIES WILL,
WE'RE GOING TO LOSE JOBS, AND
THAT'S WHY IT'S IMPORTANT TO
THESE 164,000 JOBS THAT WE ARE
REAUTHORIZE AN AGENCY THAT MAKES
MONEY FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
ALMOST MILLION LAST YEAR AND
OVER $7 BILLION IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF DECADES.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S THE POINT
ONE READS THE CRITICS ARE MAKING
AND THAT IS THEY'RE SAYING IN
ALL THAT THE GOVERNMENT DOESN'T
GAIN FROM THIS, IT ENDS UP
PAYING BECAUSE OF THE MONEY THAT
ENDS UP GOING TO THE COMPANIES
THAT MAKE THE MONEY OTHERWISE
AND THE TAXPAYERS END UP THE
ONES WHO ARE HELD LIABLE AND THE
AMERICAN TAXPAYERS LOSE OUT.
>> WE HAVE INSTANT REPLAY.
WE CAN LOOK BACK OVER THE LAST
20 YEARS AND SEE THIS BANK HAS
TRANSFERRED ALMOST $7 BILLION TO
THE TREASURE.
C.V.O. SAYS THEY MADE
$700 MILLION LAST YEAR, AND THIS
IS AFTER TAKING INTO ACCOUNT
THEIR COSTS OF OPERATION AND AN
ALLOWANCE FOR BAD DEBTS.
SO THIS IS -- C.V.O. TELL US IF
WE ABOLISH THIS AGENCY THE DEBT
HAS GONE UP BY ALMOST
$1 BILLION.
IT'S MAKING MONEY.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, WHAT'S
YOUR FORECAST?
DO YOU THINK SO THIS BANK IS
GOING TO SURVIVE OR NOT?
>> IT NEEDS TO BE RESURRECTED AT
THIS POINT AND RESURRECTIONS ARE
DIFFICULT AND RARE, BUT I THINK
WE WILL BE SUCCESSFUL IF THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE REALIZE
THIS ENTITY CREATES JOBS AND THE
OPPONENTS ARE CLINGING TO THIS
IDEOLOGICAL, THEOLOGICAL BELIEF
THAT THESE AGENCIES SHOULDN'T
EXIST.
THEY MIGHT BE RIGHT IN A WORLD
IN WHICH GERMANY, JAPAN AND
CHINA DID NOT HAVE SIMILAR
AGENCIES.
WE HAVE TO COMPETE, AND THAT'S
WHY WE NEED THIS AGENCY TO HELP
OUR EXPORTERS COMPETE WITH THOSE
OTHER EXPORTERS.
>> Woodruff: REPRESENTATIVE
BRAD SHERMAN, WE THANK YOU.
WE HOPED TO HAVE REPRESENTATIVE
JIM JORDAN JOIN US.
WE HOPE TO TALK TO HIM IN THE
FUTURE.
WE THANK YOU AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
LATEST EDITION TO THE NEWSHOUR
BOOKSHELF.
HERE'S WILLIAM BRANGHAM WITH A
LOOK AT ONE AUTHOR'S DEFENSE OF
THE POWER OF TELEVSION.
E WAY WE GET OUR VARIOUS
MEDIA, NEWS, BOOKS, TV, HAS
UNDERGONE CHANGES.
Facebook TO TWITTER, NETFLIX,
TO NAME A FEW, THESE ENTITIES
WILL ONLY SPEED THE CLIENT OF
OUR ONLY DUSTY MEDIA.
NOT SO FAST FOR COLUMNIST AND
CRITIC MICHAEL REGAN.
MILE MICHAEL WOLFF,HE
HAS WRITTEN "TELEVISION IS THE
NEW TELEVISION: THE UNEXPECTED
TRIUMPH OF OLD MEDIA IN THE
DIGITAL AGE."
MICHAEL WOLFF, THANKS FOR BEING
HERE.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
TELEVISION IS THE NEW
TELEVISION.
EXPLAIN.
HOW IS THAT TRUE?
>> WHAT DO YOU DO ALL DAY?
WHAT ARE WE DOING NOW?
WHAT DOES EVERYBODY -- I THINK I
CAN FAIRLY SAY EVERYBODY
WATCHING NOW, HOW DO THEY SPEND
MOST OF THEIR -- A GOOD PART OF
THEIR DAY?
CERTAINLY MORE TIME THAN THEY DO
ON THE INTERNET.
THEY WATCH TELEVISION.
I THINK YOU CAN GO FURTHER.
WHAT ARE THE MOST CULTURAL
MOMENTS IN THIS DAY AND AGE?
IT'S WATCHING TELEVISION,
WHETHER MAD MEN, GAME OF
THRONES, OR WHATEVER.
TELEVISION IS THIS CENTERPIECE
OF OUR LIVES.
NOW, THE INTERESTING THING IS
THAT WE HAVE BEEN TOLD FOR
RATHER A LONG TIME NOW THAT THAT
ISN'T TRUE, THAT IT ISN'T TRUE
AND THAT IT WOULD BE EVER LESS
TRUE THAT THE INTERNET, SOCIAL
MEDIA, MOBILE APPLICATIONS, THIS
WAS THE FUTURE, THIS WAS MEDIA,
THIS WAS TRANSFORMING HOW WE
THOUGHT ABOUT MEDIA AND HOW WE
THOUGHT ABOUT OURSELVES.
I THOUGHT TO MYSELF, WELL, THINK
A MINUTE, IS THIS REALLY TRUE?
I THINK IT TURNS OUT NOT TO BE
TRUE ON AN ACTUAL, PRACTICAL
BASIS.
WE WATCH TELEVISION.
BUT ON THE OTHER SIDE, IT
TURNS -- IT'S NOT TRUE ON A
BUSINESS BASIS, EITHER.
SO WE'VE GROWN ALL THESE DIGITAL
MEDIA COMPANIES AND THE DIRTY
LITTLE SECRET IS THAT THEY DON'T
WORK, THEY DON'T MAKE MONEY,
THAT THEY ARE -- THAT THEY
ACTUALLY CREATED BUSINESSES THAT
ARE BAD BUSINESSES.
>> YOU WRITE IN YOUR BOOK "NOT
ONLY HAS THE WEB NOT DESTROYED
TV BUT THE MEDIA SOURCES
CREATING PHENOMENAL TRAFFIC MAY
BECOME ITS CREATEST WEAKNESS.
HOW IS BUILDING A BIGGER
AUDIENCE A WEAKNESS?
>> FIRST THING YOU HAVE TO LOOK
AT THE QUALITY OF THE AUDIENCE.
SO BUZZ FEED BRAGS OF AN
AUDIENCE OF 150 MILLION PEOPLE A
MONTH, MILLIONS BIGGER THAN THE
SUPER BOWL, BUT IS THAT REALLY
TRUE, SINCE IT DOESN'T COME
REMOTELY, NOT 1% REMOTELY CLOSE
TO HAVING THE EARNING POWER AND
THE REVENUES OF THE SUPER BOWL
AUDIENCE?
YOU USED TO SAY, WHAT'S WRONG
WITH THIS PICTURE?
AND REALLY, WHERE YOU COME OUT
ON THIS IS, I THINK, SAYING, NO,
IT'S NOT AN AUDIENCE, AND I
DON'T THINK THEY EVEN CALL IT AN
AUDIENCE.
THEY CALL IT TRAFFIC.
IT IS LITERALLY LIKE TRAFFIC
SPEEDING BY AND WHAT BuzzFeed
DOES IS PUT YOU WILL BILLBOARDS
WHICH YOU GLIMPSE FOR A SECOND
AND THEN YOU'RE PAST AND THAT'S
BASICALLY WHAT ADVERTISING IS IN
DIGITAL MEDIA.
>> Brangham: SO IN YOUR MIND
IS TV A BETTER BUSINESS MODEL OR
ARE THEY DELIVERING SOMETHING
MORE VALUABLE TO US AS
CONSUMERS?
>> WELL, I THINK TELEVISION HAS
ACTUALLY -- IT HASN'T AS IF
TELEVISION STOOD STILL.
QUITE THE OPPOSITE.
IT RESPONDED TO THE OPPOSITION
AND MADE A BETTER PRODUCT.
REMEMBER WHEN TELEVISION WAS THE
WASTELAND?
I THINK YOU CAN NOW ARGUE THAT
DIGITAL AND SOCIAL MEDIA, THAT'S
THE WASTELAND.
ALSO, TELEVISION CONVERTED ITS
BUSINESS MODEL.
IT USED TO BE 100% ADVERTISING
SUPPORTED, EXCEPT FOR PBS.
AND NOW IT IS ACTUALLY ONLY 50%
ADVERTISING SUPPORTED.
THE REST COMES FROM FEES --
WELL, WE ALL PAY AN ENORMOUS
AMOUNT EVERY MONTH FOR
TELEVISION.
DIGITAL, ON THE OTHER HAND,
BECAUSE, REALLY, ITS STATED
PURPOSE WAS TO EAT TELEVISION'S
LUNCH, AND IT SAID LET'S MAKE
EVERYTHING FOR FREE, AND WE'LL
BE FULLY ADVERTISING SUPPORTED,
A DECISION THAT BASICALLY MEANS
THAT DIGITAL MEDIA WILL ALWAYS
BE A MARGINAL BUSINESS.
>> Brangham: IS THERE
SOMETHING IN THE DIGITAL MEDIA
WORLD THAT YOU LOOK AT AND
THINK, THIS IS ACTUALLY A
HOPEFUL MODEL FOR HOW THE
BUSINESS COULD GO?
>> WELL, CURIOUSLY, NETFLIX.
BUT WHAT THAT MEANS, AND I THINK
ALMOST EVERYBODY IN THE DIGITAL
WORLD IS NOW COMING AROUND TO
THIS THINKING, IS LET'S GO INTO
THE TELEVISION BUSINESS BECAUSE
NETFLIX, WHILE IT SAYS IT'S THE
DISRUPTER OF TELEVISION IS
TELEVISION.
THAT'S WHAT WE WATCH ON NETFLIX
AND, IN FACT, NETFLIX PAYS
ALMOST $2 BILLION A YEAR TO
HOLLYWOOD AND THE TELEVISION
INDUSTRY IN LICENSING FEES.
BUT I THINK ALMOST EVERYBODY --
GOOGLE, Facebook, BuzzFeed
RECENTLY MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT,
HUFFINGTON POST RECENTLY MADE
THTHE ANNOUNCEMENT, THAT THEY WT
TO FIND A WAY INTO THE
TELEVISION BUSINESS.
>> Brangham: WHAT DOES THAT
TELL YOU, IF TELEVISION CREATED
A MODEL THAT ALL THESE DIGITAL
DISRUPTERS ARE NOW EMULATING,
WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT WHAT
THE AUDIENCE, WHAT WE WANT?
>> I THINK IT SAYS VERY CLEARLY
WHAT WE WANT IS OLD-FASHIONED
STORY.
WE WANT WELL-WRITTEN,
INTELLIGENT, STRUCTURED,
WELL-PERFORMED, WELL-PRODUCED
CONTENT, AND I THINK WE WANT TO
SIT THERE AND I THINK WE WANT TO
ENJOY IT.
>> Brangham: THE BOOK IS
"TELEVISION IS THE NEW
TELEVISION: THE UNEXPECTED
TRIUMPH OF OLD MEDIA IN THE
DIGITAL AGE."
MICHAEL WOLFF, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR BEING HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: WHILE THE GROUP KNOWN AS
THE ISLAMIC STATE ONLY BECAME
KNOWN TO AMERICANS IN THE PAST
YEAR OR SO, ITS ROOTS ARE DEEPER
THAN YOU MAY THINK.
IN THIS WEEK'S INSTALLMENT OF
THE NEWSHOUR PODCAST "SHORTWAVE"
-- WE TAKE A LOOK AT WHERE THIS
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION CAME
FROM, AND WHERE IT MAY BE
HEADED.
FIND A LINK TO LISTEN, ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY.
FORMER PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER
TALKS TO JUDY ABOUT HIS LATEST
BOOK: "A FULL LIFE: REFLECTIONS
AT NINETY."
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.